readme.md, before:



[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)
[![Travis CI w/ Logo](https://img.shields.io/travis/tterb/yt2mp3/master.svg?logo=travis)](https://travis-ci.com/github/sandialabs/Spitfire)
[![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/yt2mp3/badge/?version=latest)](https://spitfire.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

# Introduction

Spitfire is a Python/C++ library for solving complex chemistry and reaction-diffusion problems used in constructing tabulated chemistry models, built atop a variety of methods for solving nonlinear systems and differential equations.

Spitfire has several key objectives:
- Solve canonical combustion problems with complex chemical kinetics using advanced time integration and continuation techniques.
- Build tabulated chemistry models for use in reacting flow simulation.
- Design and rapidly prototype solvers and time integration techniques for general-purpose ordinary and partial differential equations.


Spitfire has been used by researchers at Sandia National Laboratories and the University of Utah for a number of applications:
- construct adiabatic and nonadiabatic flamelet libraries (tabulated chemistry) for simulation of single- and multi-phase combustion, 
  similarly to how the FlameMaster code has been used
- investigate the design of specialized embedded pairs of explicit Runge-Kutta methods and advanced adaptive time stepping techniques
- generate homogeneous reactor, non-premixed flamelet, and simple reaction-diffusion datasets for the training of low-dimensional surrogate models of chemical kinetics
- perform fundamental studies of combustion in the MILD regime
- study chemical explosive modes and low-temperature oxidation pathways of complex fuels in non-premixed systems
- study the formulation of state vectors and analytical Jacobian matrices for combustion simulation


# Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Contents](#contents)
- [Installing Spitfire](#installing-spitfire)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Python Packages](#python-packages)
    + [C++ Dependencies](#c---dependencies)
    + [Prerequisite installation using Conda](#prerequisite-installation-using-conda)
    + [Prerequisite installation without Conda](#prerequisite-installation-without-conda)
  * [Building and Installing Spitfire](#building-and-installing-spitfire)
  * [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
  * [Building the Documentation](#building-the-documentation)
- [Using Spitfire](#using-spitfire)
  * [General-Purpose Time Integration](#general-purpose-time-integration)
  * [Homogeneous Reactors](#homogeneous-reactors)
  * [Non-premixed Flamelets and Tabulated Chemistry](#non-premixed-flamelets-and-tabulated-chemistry)

# Installing Spitfire

## Prerequisites

### Python Packages
Spitfire requires Python3 (developed and tested with version 3.6) and the following Python packages:
- `NumPy`
- `SciPy`
- `matplotlib`
- `Cython`
- `Cantera`
- `sphinx`
- `NumPydoc`

We also highly recommend installing `jupyter` and `dash`.

### C++ Dependencies
Spitfire requires a C++11-compliant compiler and the BLAS/LAPACK libraries, which are commonly available on many systems.

### Prerequisite installation using Conda
Conda provides the easiest method of installing Spitfire's Python dependencies, primarily because it can install the Cantera Python interface.
It is probably best to make an environment for Spitfire.
At the moment, stick to Python 3.6 or 3.7, as it is unclear if Spitfire and its dependencies run properly on Python 3.8.
To make an environment named `spitfire` which will use Python 3.7, enter
```
conda create -n spitfire python=3.7
```
and then to activate it:
```
conda activate spitfire
```

After activating your environment, run the following commands to install the prerequisites.
```
conda install numpy scipy matplotlib Cython sphinx numpydoc
conda install -c cantera cantera
```
Also recommended are the following optional packages:
```
conda install -c anaconda jupyter
```

### Prerequisite installation without Conda
The pip package manager may also be used although this is more difficult because you'll have to install the Cantera Python interface yourself (see their [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Cantera/cantera) for guidance).
Before installing Cantera, install the packages noted above, most of which can be done with `pip3`.

## Building and Installing Spitfire
After installing the prerequisites, clone the Spitfire repository and `cd` to the base repository directory.
```
git clone https://github.com/sandialabs/Spitfire.git
cd Spitfire
```
Run the following command to install Spitfire for use in Python.
```
python3 setup.py install
```
If you want to run tests and build the documentation yourself, an in-place build is also required:
```
python3 setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

## Running the Tests
Spitfire has a number of tests that verify correctness or regression of the code.
After installing Spitfire or developing code it is a great idea to run these tests.
To do this, go to the base repository directory and enter `python3 -m unittest discover -s spitfire_test/`.

## Building the Documentation
First, be aware that static documentation for Spitfire is hosted by [Read the Docs](https://spitfire.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
Second, documenting multi-language software in scientific applications, especially when extensibility is an explicit aim, is hard!
Any questions, suggestions, or help you could provide would be appreciated greatly.
Now, if you want your own copy of the docs, or if you're developing in Spitfire and want to make sure your new documentation looks good, you can simply run the following commands,
```
cd docs
make html
```
and then point your favorite web browser to the `build/html/index.html` file.


# Using Spitfire

## General-Purpose Time Integration
- Explicit methods
    - [Basics of using explicit methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/explicit_exponential_decay_simple.html)
    - [User-defined time-stepping methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/explicit_exponential_decay_custom_methods.html)
    - [Adaptive time stepping and custom termination rules for cannonball trajectories](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/adaptive_stepping_and_custom_termination.html)
    - [Customized adaptive time-stepping methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/customized_adaptive_stepping.html)
    - [Solving a lid-driven cavity problem with adaptive time-stepping](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/lid_driven_cavity_scalar_mixing.html)
- Implicit methods
    - [Basics of using implicit methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_exponential_decay_simple.html)
    - [Advanced linear solvers for advection-diffusion](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_advection_diffusion_linear_solvers_advanced.html)
    - [Solving an 'explosive' diffusion-reaction problem](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_diffusion_reaction.html)

## Homogeneous Reactors 
  - [Introduction to Cantera and Spitfire](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/thermochemistry_Cantera_Spitfire_griffon.html)
  - [Creation of a One-Step Reaction Mechanism and Ignition Comparison](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/one_step_heptane_ignition.html)
  - [Computing Ignition Delay Profiles for a Two-Stage Ignition Fuel](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/ignition_delay_NTC_DME.html)
  - [Time-dependent Flow Reactor with Periodic Ignition/Extinction](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/oscillating_ignition_extinction.html)
  - [Chemical Explosive Mode Analysis of Isothermal/Adiabatic Reactors](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/isothermal_reactors_with_mode_analysis.html)
  - [Multiple Steady States in n-heptane/air Mixtures](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/ignition_extinction_heptane.html)

## Non-premixed Flamelets and Tabulated Chemistry
  - [Introduction to Flamelets in Spitfire](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/introduction_to_flamelets.html)
  - [Introduction to the Tabulation Methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/high_level_tabulation_api_adiabatic.html)
  - [Tabulation Methods for Nonadiabatic Models](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_nonadiabatic_flamelets.html)
  - [Model Generation for a Methane Shear Layer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/methane_shear_layer_tabulation.html)
  - [Transient Ignition with Advanced Time Integration Options](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/transient_ignition_stepper_details.html)
  - [Simple Rate Sensitivity Study with Flamelet Ignition](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_transient_flamelet_rate_sensitivity.html)
  - [Custom Tabulation for a 4D Coal Combustion Model](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_coal_combustion_model.html)

Commit message:

Add a little note about Travis CI badge instability, and clarify the C++ dependencies section in the readme.

readme.md, after:



[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)
[![Travis CI w/ Logo](https://img.shields.io/travis/tterb/yt2mp3/master.svg?logo=travis)](https://api.travis-ci.com/sandialabs/Spitfire.svg?branch=master)
[![Read the Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/yt2mp3/badge/?version=latest)](https://spitfire.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
(note: Travis CI badges are unstable - you can check the build by simply clicking on the `passing`/`failing` text...)

# Introduction

Spitfire is a Python/C++ library for solving complex chemistry and reaction-diffusion problems used in constructing tabulated chemistry models, built atop a variety of methods for solving nonlinear systems and differential equations.

Spitfire has several key objectives:
- Solve canonical combustion problems with complex chemical kinetics using advanced time integration and continuation techniques.
- Build tabulated chemistry models for use in reacting flow simulation.
- Design and rapidly prototype solvers and time integration techniques for general-purpose ordinary and partial differential equations.


Spitfire has been used by researchers at Sandia National Laboratories and the University of Utah for a number of applications:
- construct adiabatic and nonadiabatic flamelet libraries (tabulated chemistry) for simulation of single- and multi-phase combustion, 
  similarly to how the FlameMaster code has been used
- investigate the design of specialized embedded pairs of explicit Runge-Kutta methods and advanced adaptive time stepping techniques
- generate homogeneous reactor, non-premixed flamelet, and simple reaction-diffusion datasets for the training of low-dimensional surrogate models of chemical kinetics
- perform fundamental studies of combustion in the MILD regime
- study chemical explosive modes and low-temperature oxidation pathways of complex fuels in non-premixed systems
- study the formulation of state vectors and analytical Jacobian matrices for combustion simulation


# Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Contents](#contents)
- [Installing Spitfire](#installing-spitfire)
  * [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Python Packages](#python-packages)
    + [C++ Dependencies](#c---dependencies)
    + [Prerequisite installation using Conda](#prerequisite-installation-using-conda)
    + [Prerequisite installation without Conda](#prerequisite-installation-without-conda)
  * [Building and Installing Spitfire](#building-and-installing-spitfire)
  * [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
  * [Building the Documentation](#building-the-documentation)
- [Using Spitfire](#using-spitfire)
  * [General-Purpose Time Integration](#general-purpose-time-integration)
  * [Homogeneous Reactors](#homogeneous-reactors)
  * [Non-premixed Flamelets and Tabulated Chemistry](#non-premixed-flamelets-and-tabulated-chemistry)

# Installing Spitfire

## Prerequisites

### Python Packages
Spitfire requires Python3 (developed and tested with version 3.6) and the following Python packages:
- `NumPy`
- `SciPy`
- `matplotlib`
- `Cython`
- `Cantera`
- `sphinx`
- `NumPydoc`

We also highly recommend installing `jupyter` and `dash`.

### C++ Dependencies
Spitfire requires a C++11-compliant compiler and the BLAS/LAPACK libraries, which are commonly available on many systems
and entirely conda-based toolchains can provide these. Often simply installing NumPy, as already required, is sufficient.

### Prerequisite installation using Conda
Conda provides the easiest method of installing Spitfire's Python dependencies, primarily because it can install the Cantera Python interface.
It is probably best to make an environment for Spitfire.
At the moment, stick to Python 3.6 or 3.7, as it is unclear if Spitfire and its dependencies run properly on Python 3.8.
To make an environment named `spitfire` which will use Python 3.7, enter
```
conda create -n spitfire python=3.7
```
and then to activate it:
```
conda activate spitfire
```

After activating your environment, run the following commands to install the prerequisites.
```
conda install numpy scipy matplotlib Cython sphinx numpydoc
conda install -c cantera cantera
```
Also recommended are the following optional packages:
```
conda install -c anaconda jupyter
```

### Prerequisite installation without Conda
The pip package manager may also be used although this is more difficult because you'll have to install the Cantera Python interface yourself (see their [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Cantera/cantera) for guidance).
Before installing Cantera, install the packages noted above, most of which can be done with `pip3`.

## Building and Installing Spitfire
After installing the prerequisites, clone the Spitfire repository and `cd` to the base repository directory.
```
git clone https://github.com/sandialabs/Spitfire.git
cd Spitfire
```
Run the following command to install Spitfire for use in Python.
```
python3 setup.py install
```
If you want to run tests and build the documentation yourself, an in-place build is also required:
```
python3 setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

## Running the Tests
Spitfire has a number of tests that verify correctness or regression of the code.
After installing Spitfire or developing code it is a great idea to run these tests.
To do this, go to the base repository directory and enter `python3 -m unittest discover -s spitfire_test/`.

## Building the Documentation
First, be aware that static documentation for Spitfire is hosted by [Read the Docs](https://spitfire.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
Second, documenting multi-language software in scientific applications, especially when extensibility is an explicit aim, is hard!
Any questions, suggestions, or help you could provide would be appreciated greatly.
Now, if you want your own copy of the docs, or if you're developing in Spitfire and want to make sure your new documentation looks good, you can simply run the following commands,
```
cd docs
make html
```
and then point your favorite web browser to the `build/html/index.html` file.


# Using Spitfire

## General-Purpose Time Integration
- Explicit methods
    - [Basics of using explicit methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/explicit_exponential_decay_simple.html)
    - [User-defined time-stepping methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/explicit_exponential_decay_custom_methods.html)
    - [Adaptive time stepping and custom termination rules for cannonball trajectories](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/adaptive_stepping_and_custom_termination.html)
    - [Customized adaptive time-stepping methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/customized_adaptive_stepping.html)
    - [Solving a lid-driven cavity problem with adaptive time-stepping](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/explicit/lid_driven_cavity_scalar_mixing.html)
- Implicit methods
    - [Basics of using implicit methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_exponential_decay_simple.html)
    - [Advanced linear solvers for advection-diffusion](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_advection_diffusion_linear_solvers_advanced.html)
    - [Solving an 'explosive' diffusion-reaction problem](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/time_integration/implicit/implicit_diffusion_reaction.html)

## Homogeneous Reactors 
  - [Introduction to Cantera and Spitfire](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/thermochemistry_Cantera_Spitfire_griffon.html)
  - [Creation of a One-Step Reaction Mechanism and Ignition Comparison](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/one_step_heptane_ignition.html)
  - [Computing Ignition Delay Profiles for a Two-Stage Ignition Fuel](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/ignition_delay_NTC_DME.html)
  - [Time-dependent Flow Reactor with Periodic Ignition/Extinction](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/oscillating_ignition_extinction.html)
  - [Chemical Explosive Mode Analysis of Isothermal/Adiabatic Reactors](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/isothermal_reactors_with_mode_analysis.html)
  - [Multiple Steady States in n-heptane/air Mixtures](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/reactors/ignition_extinction_heptane.html)

## Non-premixed Flamelets and Tabulated Chemistry
  - [Introduction to Flamelets in Spitfire](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/introduction_to_flamelets.html)
  - [Introduction to the Tabulation Methods](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/high_level_tabulation_api_adiabatic.html)
  - [Tabulation Methods for Nonadiabatic Models](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_nonadiabatic_flamelets.html)
  - [Model Generation for a Methane Shear Layer](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/methane_shear_layer_tabulation.html)
  - [Transient Ignition with Advanced Time Integration Options](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/transient_ignition_stepper_details.html)
  - [Simple Rate Sensitivity Study with Flamelet Ignition](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_transient_flamelet_rate_sensitivity.html)
  - [Custom Tabulation for a 4D Coal Combustion Model](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/sandialabs/Spitfire/blob/master/spitfire_demo/flamelet/example_coal_combustion_model.html)
